# merge-gpx-exif
You can record a gpx file on your mobile while taking photos with a non-gps camera. Merge waypoint data into picture exif with this utility. 

There are numerous utilities and techniques for getting gps location data into the exif header of a picture. Mobile phones do this natively. But fancy DSLRs usually do not, I believe because pro photographers want to limit the drain on their batteries and gps tends to use a lot of power. Even so, there are lots of existing utilities to add latitude/longitude to photo exif headers. But I wanted a plausibly useful project to work on, and this is it.

This utility requires Java 8. In the first release I have supplied a minimal Swing-based UI for selecting a directory that contains unmarked photo files, then selecting a gpx file containing waypoint data, and finally selecting a target directory where photo files with gps data are saved.

A map is displayed that shows the waypoints that were merged into the photos. If you click on a waypoint on the map, the photo image is shown. In the case where waypoints overlap, the last waypoint clicked is moved beneath any overlapping waypoints. This lets you click on waypoints that may be unseen if you took several pictures without moving very much between taking them.

The gpx file I use is generated by my mobile phone (iPhone) running an app named 'MotionX-GPS'. I use this to record my track as a set of waypoints. While I wander around, I often take pictures with my DSLR. The timestamps of these pictures are matched with a closest (in time) waypoint from the gpx file by this program. The lat/long from the waypoint is then added to the photo exif header and the photo is written to the target directory.

GPX Merge uses JxMaps http://www.teamdev.com/jxmaps, which is a proprietary software. The use of JxMaps is governed by the JxMaps Product Licence Agreement http://www.teamdev.com/jxmaps-licence-agreement.
If you would like to use JxMaps in your development, please contact TeamDev.

